it's DSPs game of the year awards 2013
the top 10 best games of the year
honorable mention Pikmin 3 so I
definitely wanted to mention this game
because it's one of the very few wii u
exclusive games that I played this year
and I really enjoyed it I had previously
never played a pigment game so I had no
idea what to expect but let me tell you
the cuteness the quirkiness the the just
the warmth of this game is great plus
the challenge of the fact that it's a
puzzle game you have to try to figure
out how to get certain piece of fruit
how do i use this certain type of Pikmin
to solve this new challenge and it's so
cool because as you start to micromanage
these Pikmin you actually start to care
about through saying oh no my little
Pikmin got eaten by that giant monster
that sucks and really you start to care
about them instead of thinking them as
little sacrificial lambs to do your
bidding you think of them as you're
almost your family your your minions who
you want to care for a nurturer the game
is awesome and I have to say this one of
the few games that actually did make
good utilization of the wii u gamepad
because it actually has you micromanage
different people controlling different
groups of pigment with the top down map
that happens on the touchscreen so on
all cylinders a great game so why didn't
make my top 10 games of the year a
couple reasons first of all because
they're just were too many other games
that I liked a little bit more than
Pikmin this year number two cuz I never
played all the game modes there's
actually several challenge modes and
things that I never got to experience
and therefore I never gave the game an
official review but I loved it at least
for the campaign that I played and I
wanted to get it hidden here as I
mentioned on the countdown Pikmin 3 if
you have a Wii U or you're thinking of
buying a wii u for maybe a different
game Pikmin 3 should also be a
consideration on your list and now my
number 4 favorite game of 2013 all the
way from back at the beginning of the
year dead space 3
I'll be honest with everyone when I
played the dead space 3 demo and I saw
some of the gameplay in trailers I
thought that they had gone off the rails
I thought that dead space 3 was
basically going to play like lost
planning and that's a bad thing but what
it turned out was that the demo actually
was not a very good representation of
what the actual game was a cool newly
expanded gameplay experience from the
previous two installments Dead Space 1
and 2 primarily you were always in these
closed corridors on some kind of a space
station fighting off necromorphs that
were basically contagious and infecting
the entire area in Dead Space 3 you're
on an alien planet you're able to
actually go across large areas on the
top side and you have to deal with the
fact that there's sub-zero temperatures
and you can't survive out there for too
long in addition to that the cool aspect
that the game is now co-op you always
have an AI partner who's talking to you
through your head calm or if you have a
second person playing with you over the
Internet two-player cooperative gameplay
that really works I'll be honest I
thought maybe it was going to make the
game too easy or it wouldn't be as scary
I was still as scared and enjoyed the
game as much I feel as is when I played
a single player because that's right I
liked dead space 3 so much I played it
again I played it once co-op with John
Rambo my frequent co-op partner and then
I played it through single player by
myself to see the differences through
absolute cool twists and turns in the
plot the fact that we finally have a
culmination of this plotline in the game
versus the other games where was always
like a cliffhanger you know what was
going on this game you finally find out
exactly definitively what is going on
with this whole plot line the fact that
the jump scares the cool corridor audio
scares everything about the previous
games is still there with more refined
gameplay the fact that you can make your
own custom weapons at the bench is a
huge fun new addition to the game I
think John Rambo liked it a little bit
more than I did he was always at the
word bench but dead space 3 really
improved upon the formula I loved the
game and by the way there was an
excellent DLC that come
we fight up the story later on in the
year you definitely got to check it out
especially now it's a year old you could
probably get it for cheap don't miss the
experience just because it was a co-op
experience and you're worried that it
changed too much it didn't it's worth
your time check it out well alright this
is it only three games remain in my game
of the Year picks for 2013 when we
return on the countdown I'm going to
take time out to do a tripleheader
challenge that's right we're going to
analyze each one of my picks for the top
three games of the year talk about the
pros and cons and we're going to have a
big showdown between the three before we
officially start announcing what is the
best game of 2013 come on back and check
it out